9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with [music]
David Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Let's
get to the top stories today. Stocks
across the Asia Pacific [music]
climbing. Uh we're looking at new highs
now led by this reopen in Japan. Oil
prices holding on [music] to declines on
hopes the US and Iran are nearing a deal
to end the war.
>> President Trump says that agreement
could [music] be reached before his
high-stakes meeting with China's Xi
Jinping next week. And Beijing pushes
[music] Iran to reopen the Strait of
Hormuz as soon as possible. And Chinese
regulators tell big banks to [music]
pause new loans to refiners under those
US sanctions.
>> And we speak exclusively with the
greater China head of hotel operator
[music] Accor to discuss the record May
Day travel holiday season and the
outlook for the industry.
>> [music]
>> Well, once again, it is continuing to be
a good news story when it comes to the
situation in Iran. Uh this one-page
memorandum that the US has reportedly
has said to Iran there on how to end
this war. I think, according to what
we're hearing, there's going to be 48
hours for the other side, Iran, to
respond. But then again, markets are
going with it and saying, "Look, maybe
the worst is over for now." Yeah. Uh I
think oil at 100 maybe tells you that we
are incrementally better uh position. Of
course, but the same at the same time
that we still haven't heard from the uh
Iranians themselves, of course, on this
proposal. So, we'll get to those
details, of course. But in the meantime,
as Yvonne is pointing out, right? So, I
think we're uh feeling a lot of
tailwinds. Oil down, dollar down. You
have this yen intervention speculation
around such also weighing
uh on the US dollar, helping things
along. Plus, you have this open in
Japan, which is mechanically lifting uh
the benchmark today. So, we're up 4.4 uh
on the Nikkei. It's looking like we are
going to get a rally again in in in
Chinese markets today. More on that in a
moment. KOSPI, of course, is reversing
some of the strength yesterday. It was
substantial strength, of course, which
came through. So, this is
doesn't even scratch the surface, this
1.3% decline we're seeing. And Taiwan
coming online, 2% to the upside there.
We talked about commodity markets. Oil
101 last I checked on Brent. West Texas
is coming up on your screens, 102 right
now on Brent. Iron ore, by the way, has
silently rallied back to 111. Watch that
closely. We talked about the yen 7-day
look. It takes you back all the way to
early of last week.
And yes, you've seen it, periodic spikes
down, well, declines in dollar-yen. One
on Friday, and a couple of course early
this week, and of course the one that we
had around midday in Asia on Wednesday.
And just a recap of the very big moves
overnight. And a lot of stocks to watch,
of course, going into the Chinese open
today. So, Alibaba, Baidu up
substantially overnight. And of course,
this big tech rally in crane shares.
KWEB was up 4.3%.
So, there's a ton on deck for investors
today.
>> Yeah, and really it continues to be what
we're seeing in terms of the headlines.
The US and Iran are circling around a
fresh proposal to end their war. Now,
Washington has presented a one-page
memorandum of understanding that would
gradually reopen the Strait of Hormuz
and lift the blockade on Iranian ports.
Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon.
Because as tough as they are, we want to
keep them alive. We want all of you
alive.
>> [clears throat]
>> Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon. And
they won't. And they've agreed to that
among other things.
Let's bring in our team and we're
covering all the bases here, hopefully.
Michael Heath is with us, of course, our
China correspondent Min Min Lo, and of
course on the market side, Mark
Cranfield, our M Live strategist.
Michael, let me start with you.
One-pager seems more than enough and
sufficient in as far as the top top
headlines are concerned.
Where are we here
in these negotiations?
Yeah, David. I mean it's it's
interesting because on one hand, you
know, one page it doesn't seem like a
lot to go on, but what's curious here is
the is the sort of
deferment or delay at least in the in
the nuclear talks that's contained in
that
resolving that issue. So, the
memorandum of of understanding is is
basically for both sides to gradually
reopen the threat of hormones and the US
would would gradually, you know, end its
blockade as well and get things moving
and then progress to a next stage of of
discussing
the whole nuclear issue. Now, in those
in in in terms of the nuclear
discussions, the US is sort of
it seems to have to be giving some
leeway there in terms of Iran's side
about,
you know, moratoriums on its enrichment
and and where where things will sorry,
where the uranium would be held. But,
there's also been comments from Iran too
that they're only discussing the the war
and you know, the ending of the war and
that these reports about nuclear
discussions or or some sort of deal
there are speculation. So, we're it's a
little bit unclear, but it does seem
like the US has moved a little bit
towards what Iran had been asking for.
The the trouble on the other side is
that Iran's leadership is fractured.
Obviously, that decapitation strike at
the end of February that opened the war
means you've got various factions in the
government. So, it's quite difficult to
work out who's going to make a decision,
which is why the US is is referring to a
couple of days, you know, when it
expects to receive an answer. But,
there is some logic to the markets
receiving this well. It it does seem to
be some progress and there's also a bit
of a deadline too with the the US-China
you know,
summit that's coming up as well.
Certainly, the US would like to have
something wrapped up with the the Middle
East before going there.
Yeah, and can they actually end this war
before he heads to Beijing is a big
question there, Michael. I I want to ask
you about what's going on in the Strait
of Hormuz because we've been tracking it
with our data. And we will throw the
chart for viewers to see. It It's the
vessel traffic has basically gone to
zero
since, you know, the last 24 hours or so
here. This is the first time in about a
month that we've actually seen zero
crossings based on our tracking data.
Iran did set out a process though a a
forward the the transit in in the Strait
of Hormuz
and talked about specific protocols that
that could be in place.
How do you think ship owners and the
like should be reacting to this now?
Yeah, Yvonne, Iran has put They They
basically released this
this sort of statement that that said
and it all looks fairly reasonable that
that ship owners seem to need to say
their you know, their origins, their
destination,
you know, what what what their cargo is,
where their crew are from, etc. Just
simple information. And then the once
they receive an email, they could pass.
But Bloomberg's been talking to some of
the the ship owners and and there's a
lot of concern out there that that in
fact this is sort of just gathering
information about locations and these
sorts of ship was hit again by an
unidentified projectile. So
there's there's just a lot of
nervousness about that. And then just
going back to this whole faction side,
we saw even during the war when
what you know, the Iranian political
officials would talk about or we won't
attack our neighbor etc. And then Iran
was firing it missiles because the
military was doing something different
as well. So it's just very difficult to
to believe that to be comfortable that
that you would be secure going through
there even if you got approval through
this Iranian process. And and there is
suspicion that it's just information
gathering as well.
And hence you're seeing that you know,
that decline in traffic at this stage
too. There's just a lot of uncertainty
from those ships that are that are
trapped in the Persian Gulf.
Okay. Um that was Michael Heath there.
Mita, I want to bring you in now to talk
about the China angle. And in just the
last couple of minutes, we got this
news, a scoop here, that you know,
regulators in China are asking the banks
to to pause these new loans to these uh
US sanctioned refiners. It was just a
few days ago we talked about the the
directive was to ignore US sanctions,
but now we're seeing this move. How do
we interpret that? Yeah, it's quite
interesting and it's not clear the two
ways to interpret this. One is perhaps a
lack of coordination within the
government because China does have a
tradition of complying with sanctions.
And the the directive earlier to ignore
the sanctions came from the Ministry of
Commerce. Whereas this directive to the
banks to review their dealings with the
Chinese refiners and to hold any new
loans, that came from the banking
regulator. So, it's not clear is it
because the different branches of the
government are not coordinating with
each other or is it because it's a
matter of China putting out a very tough
stance in public, but then at the back
end they're quietly complying just in
order not to escalate things with the US
ahead of President Trump's trip because
there is a very real threat of secondary
sanctions because the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson has said he's
already sent two letters to Chinese
banks warning them about the threat of
secondary sanctions. And I think China
is particularly concerned for the big
four, the systematically important banks
like the BOC, like the Construction
Bank, the Agricultural Bank uh because
in the past when there are sanctions,
they would tend to avoid them by
routing, for example, Iran-related
sanctions to smaller banks like the
subsidiary banks owned by the China
National Petroleum Corp.
What came of the the meeting yesterday
with the Iranian Foreign Minister? Yeah,
so the Iranian Foreign Minister was in
Beijing to meet with Chinese Foreign
Minister Wang Yi. Uh I would say there
wasn't a lot that came out of it in a
concrete sense because we are hearing
the same lines again from Foreign
Minister Wang Yi calling for a
ceasefire, calling for a return to
talks. I think what is worth noting from
the read out from the Chinese side is
there was
a sense that they are supportive of Iran
when it comes to its nuclear ambition.
It says that China appreciates that Iran
is committed to not develop lethal
nuclear weapons, but they respect the
legitimate right of Iran to develop
peaceful use of nuclear energy. And of
course, this is the big sticking point
between Iran and US, right? The US wants
Iran to completely give up its stockpile
of enriched uranium, and this is where
the two sides really can't see eye to
eye, and it seems like at least the
Iranian foreign minister is hoping that
China can play a larger role in perhaps,
you know, putting pressure on Washington
here. Have a listen to what he said.
We are aware of the four-point proposal
put forward by the honorable President
Xi. Based on these principles, it is
possible to achieve peace and stability
in the Persian Gulf region. We have
always believed, and even more now, that
China can play a constructive role in
this regard.
Min Min on the China on the China angle
and latest as far as that's concerned.
So, those two stories put together, you
have a weaker dollar, you have oil on
the downside, gold is picking up a
little bit, metals prices are also
rising today. Iron ore, we talked about
that. Asian shares at a new record. Mark
Cranfield is with us for more on the
market context. Mark, seems that the
market is running with the story that
this is just about over.
Yeah, the people in the equity market,
especially, they they didn't need a
one-page memorandum to tell them that
the conditions are right for buying
stocks. They just needed one line. When
Trump said the war is over, that was
good enough. Markets go off to the
races. I mean, the part of what's
happened in the past few few weeks is
that the big tech companies, especially,
have shown that they can make plenty of
money even with the the war going on in
the background, which is something that
property investors hadn't realized in in
the past.
When we've had big geopolitical
disturbances previously, people have
stepped back, been very shocked, and
it's lasted for quite a bit longer. This
time around, we've had earnings reports
coming out throughout the period of the
conflict in March when it was at its
worst and going on in into April, and
yet companies, particularly related to
the AI story, are making huge profits.
And so, that's reassured everybody that
this is really a a bit of not a
sideshow, but something that they can
factor in well, particularly
oil prices might be high, but they're
they're not going towards $200. Around
$100, people can understand that, they
can price it in. So, that's why people
are relatively confident in the equity
space. If you then take away
the risk and say that we're going to go
back to where we were with the the
Strait of Hormuz open again and trade
flowing freely, well, that just gives
you an extra kicker for wanting to be
involved in the equity story. So,
clearly, there could be more to come if
a concrete deal is is put in place here.
But for now, people are very focused on
the fact that companies just keep on
reporting tremendous earnings despite
having oil prices much higher than they
were. And the I mean, the demand for
data centers, the more data centers that
are built, the more chips need to be
provided. So, these companies, people
like Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor,
have already reached a trillion-dollar
valuation. Who knows where the top side
will be if people continue to build data
centers all around the world.
Yeah, that's what you're seeing Japan
with a catch-up trade, the Nikkei up
some close to 5% mark. They're you know,
the Japanese are waking up to this
reality of of of dollar-yen, right? So,
we're we're at 156 levels
right now. There was speculation that
something might have happened yesterday,
maybe another sign of intervention. Uh
we're hearing something from the
officials here this morning, but
everyone's kind of calculating how many
more times they can they keep doing
this.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, according to their their currency
chief today, Mr. Mimura, um he says that
the IMF rules in a way don't apply, that
he can he can intervene as many times as
he wants to. I'm I'm sure that will be
discussed when Scott Bessent is expected
to go to Tokyo next week. From the
equity market point of view, having
dollar yen
cheap but stable is really the ideal
scenario for the Japanese equity market.
If they can hold it somewhere between
150 or 160, that will be just nice.
Japanese exporters will be in a great
place.
From a foreigner's point of view, market
will look relatively cheap compared to
some others as well. So, that's ideal.
The The Japanese authorities know that
without the Bank of Japan raising
interest rates, they have limited
traction as far as the market is
concerned. But what they don't want is
the yen to run away on the downside out
of control. And they appear to have done
a pretty good job by capping it around
the 160 level and getting the market to
believe that they have enough ammunition
to keep it under 160. That will They'll
need to come in a couple more times, but
they can persuade the market that
there's almost a There's going to be a
hard ceiling for dollar yen around the
160. As long as it settles somewhere
between there and 150 or so, that will
probably be satisfying. They're going to
get help as well. If If we really are
going into a stage where the war is
behind us, the dollar would likely come
down anyway. The dollar had a big haven
premium during the war. As that starts
to come away, that will help the
Japanese yen. It will help other
currencies as well. So, all in all, it's
really looking a much better scenario
for people that want to invest in Japan.
And it With the equity market has been
underperforming compared to Korea and
Taiwan. So, there could be still more
catch-up to play in Japan.
Mark, thank you. Mark Cranfield there,
MI strategist joining us out of
Singapore. As we've been talking, we're
taking a look at what it comes to the
pre-market.
But yes, it looks like tech in China is
set to kind of take flight here once
again. We take a look at what the ADRs
did overnight. With Alibaba, with Baidu,
they were up 11% for Baidu, the best
performer there on the Nasdaq Golden
Dragon. We're indicated higher here in
the city today. We're counting on the
opens of trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and Hong Kong. This is [music] the China
Show.
>> [music]
>> Iran [music] is the world's largest
state sponsor of terrorism, and anyone
who's buying oil from Iran is
contributing [music] to that. We're
looking for stability with China. We
don't want this to be something that
derails the broader
the broader [music] relationship or any
agreements that might come out of our
meeting in Beijing, but it's certainly
something that may come up.
US Trade Representative Jamison Greer
there on how he expects China's Iran oil
purchases to be on the table when
President Trump and Xi meet next week.
Bloomberg Economics also has been
thinking that what what happens with
this summit, if it does happen or not,
US and China the scheduled meeting for
next week may be postponed or even
canceled due to the war and maybe the
risk of that is now higher. Let's bring
in Adam Farrar, a senior geo-economics
analyst joining us now.
Adam, obviously this it's been a very
fluid situation of where the Iran
situation goes, but I wanted to get your
take on the Iran Iranian Foreign
Minister and that visit to Beijing, you
know, just a week before this Trump-Xi
summit.
Do you think that China made any
difference and and really leading up to
developments we've seen today when it
comes to the Middle Middle East
situation?
So, I think it's it's clear, as you
said, the timing of the the visit is not
an accident, right? Both China and Iran
saw this as an opportunity to highlight
their their connection, their
relationship, and the role that China
could play in in this, you know, kind of
ending this major world conflict and and
showing itself to be a global leader.
But, But think we have to be careful not
to over index on China's role here,
right? They're walking a very careful
balancing act with the relationship
between Iran, principal partner in the
region, but only one of their economic
partners, right? The Gulf represents a
much larger economic relationship with
with Beijing and is responsible for a
huge amount of the oil
and that Beijing imports. At the same
time, you know, while on paper it really
is it does appear that the China is
uniquely positioned to leverage increase
leverage on both Tehran and Washington
to try and push them to an agreement. We
just don't see that as likely, you know,
they're very cautious about undermining
or trying to go against the autonomy of
countries like Iran that would likely be
unwilling to accept being pushed into a
deal that they don't seem as acceptable
given the existential nature of the
conflict. And on the US side, I mean, I
think it's very clear that that China is
more focused on the broader relationship
with Washington and President and Trump
and isn't looking to upend the apple
cart at this point on the trade truce
that is still fragile and holding on.
So, Adam, that then takes us
well, hopefully and there's no
indication, by the way, it's not going
to happen. Of course, this time next
week is the big is the big summit
between the two presidents and
I just wonder, is that is that a
foregone conclusion at this point or do
you still see risks of that getting
scuppered?
So, I think we're absolutely seeing that
the odds of this happening increase
particularly with the president's
decision to kind of de-escalate the
situation in the last 24 hours, talking
about the end of the war and potentially
reaching a a deal in the immediate term
with Iran. You know, I think it is
important though that I caveat that
we've seen this cycle before and we've
seen it all fall apart, so we shouldn't
assume that we're definitely down going
down that path, but there's There's
doubt that the Iran war has put
increased stress on the US-China
relationship, right? The simple closure
of the Strait of Hormuz cut off 40% or
more of China's oil imports, and then
the subsequent US blockade that was
designed to increase pressure on Tehran
almost exclusively impacted China, who
is receiving the majority of that oil.
And all of that adds to general stress
that China sees on the global market
that could cause a potential decrease in
in demand for Chinese exports, which all
threatens China's economic growth. But
that being said, as we just discussed
before, I think the reality is that both
sides, the US and China, see real
advantage to trying to keep the trade
war uh
in this fragile peace and not allow a
return to the escalation that we saw
last year, given both domestic headwinds
in the economy, but also politically,
particularly for President Trump as he's
looking towards midterms. And at the
same time, I think there's a reality
that President Trump really is
interested in his relationship with
President Xi in developing it and
expanding it. And he simply likes the
pomp and circumstance of these types of
visits and is certainly, I think,
looking forward to stepping off the
plane as the first US president to visit
in almost 10 years. Uh so, right now it
certainly looks like we're on the path
towards a a meeting next week, but there
there are real risks, and and certainly
if the war escalates, which is possible,
uh the meeting certainly could get
delayed again or or pulled on pulled
down.
Given the dynamics that you just laid
out there, Adam, what what's the
best-case scenario that could come out
of this visit then? You know, is it just
maintain the truce?
>> Mhm.
You know, there seems to be this trend
of de-escalation, but you know, how far
could that go? I mean, could we even
talk about reducing tariffs at this
point between the two?
So, I I I think we've definitely seen
expectations dropping as to, you know,
major outcomes coming out of the next
week's visit. Uh right now we are
looking at, you know, potential
extension of this trade truce that is
supposed to only go through November.
But, you know, in addition we could see
things like additional purchase
agreements from China particularly I
focus on US agricultural goods. I mean,
I think US remains very focused on on
you know, Chinese commitments on
critical minerals and rare earths. But
at the end of the day a lot of this is
going to be about the visit itself and
demonstrating continuity in the plan for
de-escalation and messaging down in the
Chinese system and and even in the US
about you know, keeping things on an
even keel moving forward. But you know,
big moves and changes are are unlikely
at this point.
Adam, thank you. Adam Ferrar there a
senior geo economics
analyst there. Very very briefly as we
head into the open today a look at
Baidu, Baba and Kingsoft Cloud, Tencent
Music all popping of course on the back
of that moving ADRs over that. Lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Watch here this morning oil stocks there
and you're seeing mostly lower this
morning PetroChina looking on leading
the charge we're down 3 and 1/2% just
given what we were seeing here that
geopolitical price premium lowered quite
a bit here when it comes to crude prices
on the back of you know, the US and Iran
seemingly wanting some sort of deal.
We're waiting for the Iranian response
there of course, but yes, tech certainly
is liking [music] the news once again.
>> Yeah, we're back above 5,000 on the Hang
Seng Tech Index thanks to the move we're
seeing across some of these big names
here
following the move overnight. So it's
looking like somewhat of a breakout week
in fact. I might be speaking too soon,
[music] but the price action has
suggested something
unorthodox is taking place. We're
looking at Southbound Flow City very
closely on the back [music] of this
move. Lots more ahead including the
open. This is the China Show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show headed into the open today. The
tailwinds are uh
>> [music]
>> quite ample uh when you look at these at
price action particularly here in Hong
Kong. So, 300 points to the upside on
the Hang Seng index. Uh 5,000 [music]
now in the early goings in the Hang Seng
tech index and very big moves in the big
platform companies and really I guess it
helps that the dollar is weaker, oil is
down and the for how long I guess, but
it is the uh chance for us to [music]
dance dance in the sunshine, Yvonne.
Yeah, when you start to see even the
headlines around Iran looking more
positive [music] that maybe we are
getting close to some deal and markets
are going with it at least for now.
Obviously, we have seen these proposals
before that hasn't materialized to some
sort of deal, [music] but at least for
now, I think it's enough to so that you
know, sentiment at least the worst is
behind us when it comes to this Middle
East situation. Oil being back as you
mentioned around 100 bucks. And then you
have also what's been a very tech-led
earnings recovery uh in Asia as well. I
think we've had about 60% of MXAP that
have reported already. And I think it's
been pretty robust in terms of the
aggregate earnings growth about 35%. So,
it's not just about the headlines. It's
really about what we're seeing in this
whole AI story that continues uh to keep
this rally going here and you know, it's
going to be very hard to derail it at
this point according to our M Live team.
So, you take a look at how the open in
China is doing here and we are seeing uh
not big moves like we're seeing in
Japan, which is a big catch-up trade
there, but certainly you are still
seeing green of a fifth of 1% for your
Shanghai markets. It's still you know,
the Shenzhen story continues, but we're
still catching a slight bit. We'll see
how the China X does here today, but
you're seeing marginal gains on some of
these uh big darling stocks like CATL is
up another close to 9/10 of 1%.
Capricorn though after that surge that
we saw on the memory names yesterday, uh
we're just seeing slight gains here
right now, but 5% drop in Shanghai crude
that certainly is uh bringing down the
temperature in terms of being, you know,
the aversion that we've seen uh when it
comes to risk assets. So, certainly
we're we're seeing here right now, oil
is down uh when it comes to China, and
the tech space is certainly on fire once
again. Maybe this time it's more about
what we're seeing Hong Kong because
overnight we saw a big move in some of
these the big tech plays like Baba,
Baidu. Baidu was up some 11% uh in the
US. So, certainly that's what's really
driving the charge here today. It is H
over A, and H is tech is up more than
2%. We're back above that 5,000 level as
Dave mentioned here. Hang Seng is also
seeing gains of close to 1 and 1/2, and
it seems like it's really driving the
charge is Alibaba are up close to four,
Baidu close to five here right now, and
Meituan also up close to three. So, you
are seeing when it comes to these
internet platforms and the like, which
have been kind of overlooked in in this
whole AI trade, even they are playing
ball here this morning. Uh and we're
watching, of course, dollar China
getting close to that 680 level. There
you go. Uh when it came to the the the
dollar softness that we've seen as well.
Let's keep in mind what we're seeing
when it comes to the oil stocks and the
like, certainly they are following the
oil price lower here this morning. We
saw PetroChina in the premarket down
some 3%. There you go. Uh CNOOC also and
Hongli also down uh more than two. Uh
Luxshare is interesting, too. So, uh
there's been an upgrade there uh from
the sell side. So, they're talking a
little bit more from Bernstein here
about the the the AI server demand and
how they're seeing a massive sort of
growth there. They're seeing that the
stock could be the one to watch when it
comes to that theme here. So, that
target lifted by about 16% by the firm.
And Orient Securities we're watching, of
course, the brokerages and the like. Um
certainly there's been a lot of talk
about what's been going on there, what
we're seeing in the A shares, they're
resuming trade after that buyout reveal.
So, the stock is up some 5% Dave. Okay.
Yeah, so that's really helping things
along. It's quite rare that we get a
rally in uh the Chinese markets
alongside, of course, what we're seeing
elsewhere in the region. I think today
it's really about Japan reopening, but
it's really been about all things AI,
right? So, while Korea, as you can see,
is down, it was really had almost a
generational day
>> [clears throat]
>> yesterday. Taiwan is up 1.7. Japan, of
course, is coming back online after
what, 3 days of being shut. It was open
on Friday last week, of course, when
most of Asia was shut. Okay, so where
are we now in as far as this AI story is
concerned? So, we've talked about how
Taiwan has taken out several milestones.
Korea is just behind Taiwan. So, after
Taiwan surpassed Canada, it's now Korea.
This is the breaking news in the last
hour or so. Now that the data's through,
Korea has now also surpassed Canada and
is now the world's seventh largest stock
market. Number six
is Taiwan, and it now seems it's just a
matter of weeks before both are going to
be surpassing India as the next
milestone to watch it very closely. A
lot of this
is down to the AI, and a lot of that is
down to this memory shortage. In fact,
we've talked a lot about that topic
with our guest here in the China show.
I've been seeing a lot about this memory
shortage. Have a look.
One of the things that will ultimately
scupper the move is whether you start to
see a a supply response to the supply
tightness in memory chip semiconductors
more broadly, because what you're seeing
is very aggressive inventory build and
front-loading of demand because of the
fear that supply will be constrained for
the foreseeable future. Now, if there is
a supply response by the major memory
companies in the next 6 to 12 months,
then that pricing will start to unravel,
and the need to front-load inventory
build will start to wither away as well.
Some of the products are starting to see
very significant price crunch, like
memory, for example, up 4 or 500% in the
last quarter of last year, very
significant.
If you look at the international market,
a lot of focus is on chips, memory
chips. So, the China have a scale are
also doing something similar.
We are seeing more IPOs of some of these
new economy companies, right? In the
past 6 months, we got more LLMs coming
to the market, more of the chip
companies, potentially we'll see some of
the memory companies coming to the
market.
And you kind of started to see this
whole memory chip trade, you know, go at
alone, really. You're seeing that very
much in the US and it really certainly
does spill over here to the
Asia-Pacific. Just take a look at this
chart, right? So, US tech, this is the
the white line is the Philly Sox Index,
which we've been talking about
day-to-day, Dave, which basically has
been going bollocks here. We can take a
look at what basically since this war
began, right? We had a little bit of a
dip, but basically but since March, this
trade has continued to go higher and
higher. On the flip side of this,
though, is this correlation with the
S&P, whether it actually has that
positive effect. You actually see that
correlation with what the chips do, with
the rest of the S&P, that actually has
been going lower here. And that
relationship and that correlation now
has gone very close, if not even there,
to zero. So, basically, whatever the S&P
it doesn't really matter, right?
Memories will continue to go
its own way. And it's a similar sort of
picture that we're actually seeing in
Taiwan and in this part of the world in
Asia as well because you're seeing that
with not just, you know, the the TSMC
story. It's it's the other stocks like
MediaTek, which has been going limit up
uh for much of this week. Uh it's really
something that we're seeing in some of
the Asian names as well. So, you know,
how long can this trade go? I think it
really depends, of course, the supply
dynamics that you're seeing cuz everyone
said it's not about demand. That's still
strong. It's a supply issue here.
Yeah, the access and the availability of
memory. And I think markets are really
trying to figure out where we are in the
shortage story in the cycle and, you
know, like they you have your
>> [clears throat]
>> your radar up, your you know, you You
go, "Where are we here?" Uh just trying
to figure out how far
into the future we'll continue to see
prices of memory on the way up and
really at what point does supply then
catch up because at that point then it's
I guess in some ways most bets come off.
Let's get a sense of where we are. Here
joining us from Washington is Nabila
Popal, senior research director at IDC.
Nabila, thank you so much for joining
us. Good morning from the Asia Pacific.
Pleasure to have you on the show. Why
don't we start there? Where do you think
we are in the supply shortage story? Are
we near the peak, at the peak, past the
peak? Give us your sense.
Thank you. Thank you for having me. So,
you know, you asked probably the most
relevant question across so many
industries is
where we are and is are we at the peak
finally and or you know, when is when do
we reach that demand and supply
equilibrium, right? So, I think there's
two main aspects to touch upon is one is
where is the demand? Are we at the the
peak of demand? Is that going to slow
down? And the second point is price
price of memory, right? Which has
skyrocketed. So, the to address the
first, demand is not letting up. We've
seen from the capex reports of all the
CSPs and it's just you know, it's going
to continue well into the next few
years. So, we don't see demand letting
up and so that brings us to our you
know, so where where does supply stand
and there is massive as a result supply
constraint because you know, even though
the memory suppliers are trying to bring
excess capacity, it's going to be
about we're still one or two two years
out from when that capacity comes to get
realized. And even then, the larger
impact to
markets at consumer devices,
smartphones, PCs that that need you
know, that that extra capacity to be
focused or refocused towards DRAM, we're
not going to see that because even that
any excess capacity is being
you know, added is going to still focus
for majority of the players from our
research on still AI,
you know, HBM memory. And so,
um but the only, you know, good uh the
light that we're trying to we're seeing
now is that the prices of memory, which
have skyrocketed as you pointed out,
like 300, 400% is finally letting up.
So, the increases in memory prices, just
in Q1, we saw another 100% increase. In
Q2, we're expecting that to slow down.
So, that is there's some relief in the
prices. We think the ceiling for the
price
in memory heights has has been reached.
So, hopefully, we should see some
stabling off of that. But as far as
demand, it is still skyrocketing.
There's there's a big debate about
whether
you guys at IDC, obviously, you have
tracking how long these cycles are.
Is it really cyclical? Really? I mean,
it is a very cyclical side of the
business, you know, when it comes to
memory. There But there are some that
argue that this whole AI sort of boom is
essentially become much more of a
structural sort of shift that we're
seeing in memory. Would you agree with
that sort of narrative?
Absolutely. So, it's not just a
short-term or seasonality or changes.
We've been seeing, you know, quarter
after quarter and year after, you know,
we're expecting this kind of this AI
backed-up demand for memory to continue
well into late 2027. So, you know, the
question about when will this let up,
when will
the demand kind of stabilize, when will
we reach that equilibrium? We're not
expecting things in from the demand and
supply to stabilize well until like end
of 2027 and now even further the
downside risk of this extending into
early 2028
until then. And that's when, you know,
we are going to see, obviously, prices
come down to definitely not And that's
the main thing, right? That even when
things get when the supply and demand do
reach an equilibrium, we don't expect
memory prices to ever reach the way it
was back in 2025. So, yes, it will
stabilize, but it will be a full, you
know, structural reset, as you said, to
a new a normal for memory prices, for
for time for many of these markets. So
there is
you know massive changes ahead just for
the smartphone market this year because
of this crisis and supply constraints
we're expecting a 13% drop to the
smartphone market which is the largest
drop ever and similar double-digit
decline to the PC market. And you know I
we that was as per our last forecast and
we're going to publish a new one in
about two weeks and we just see
additional downside risk both from the
memory side as well as from the war that
has lit up in the Middle East. So
there's just unfortunately more and more
bad news.
And that downshift Nabila that you talk
about in in smartphone and and and and
laptops is that simply or purely a
function of just
you know output not being able to come
up with with with the product or or is
there some have we reached some
elasticity sort of
point of a curve there where it's it's
also just become a more expensive for
for for the end buyer here?
Absolutely because as memory prices go
up you're going to see that there's no
way that
OEMs can absorb all of the
added memory cost to the to the bomb to
you know within their margins because
they
especially in the low end. So we are
seeing massive price increases
especially at 30 40% on the low end of
shrink pretty pretty much elimination of
the ultra low end smartphone devices
but even on the top end we're seeing
anywhere from 10 to 20% price increases.
So prices are increasing but that's not
why the market is shrinking. It's not
that demand has suddenly fallen you know
because of the increased prices. There's
a very healthy demand. In fact the
premium market is what has been driving
any of the growth in this quarter
whereas the rest of the market is
declining. So but the
total market is dropping primarily
because of supply constraints coming
from memory not because of demand.
>> [clears throat]
>> All right Nabila we got to leave it
there, but thank you so much. Abella
Popova there, senior research director
at IDC. In other tech news this morning,
China's deep seek is reportedly raising
money from government-backed investors,
aligning itself with Beijing's push for
tech self-sufficiency. The Wall Street
Journal says prospective [music]
investors are now valuing the company at
around $50 billion.
State-backed National AI Industry
Investment Fund is [music] said to be in
advanced talks to invest in the round.
Arm shares erased gains in late trade
after adjusted earnings for the fourth
quarter [music] beat estimates, but it
warned of sluggishness in the smartphone
industry, a key source of revenue. The
CEO, Rene Haas, says the [music]
slowdown is concentrated in the lower
end of the market and will limit the
impact on Arm. The company is expanding
[music] into data centers and other
markets to reduce reliance on
smartphones.
Okay, coming up here, CK Hutch
considering further sales of [music] its
telecom assets here following the
disposal, of course, of some
uh of its assets in the UK, [music] the
mobile business. We're find out why it's
pivoting to a cash-is-king strategy.
That's coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right, we are looking [music] at CK
Hutchison shares here right now. We're
seeing upside about 1.2%. Bloomberg has
learned that the home-based conglomerate
founded by billionaire Li Ka-shing is
considering further sales of telco
assets following the $5.8 billion
disposal of its UK mobile business.
>> Right. Shirley Zhao is with us here to
talk us through this and with the
details of what we know so far. They're
making some moves right now to shore up
capital. Yes. So, we learned from
sources that CK Hutchison is still
seeking more sales of its remaining
telecom assets and it still runs telecom
services in European countries like in
Italy, Sweden, and Denmark. And it also
controls a Telco listed in Hong Kong.
And it also has joint ventures in
Southeast Asia and Australia. Um and we
also heard that a listing of um the
remaining assets remains an option.
Although CK Hutchison is unlikely to
rush into any deals anytime soon because
it's also seeking to maximize value of
its assets for um increasing returns for
its shareholders.
Can you tell us a little more about the
reasoning of why they they're they're
kind of hoarding a bit of cash now, it
seems. What's the strategy there for
Victor Li?
>> in line with CK Hutchison's long-running
philosophy to preserve as much cash as
possible for the rainy days. So, um it's
also seeking right now it's also seeking
to sell most of its ports for billions
of dollars. And it's it also wants to
list its retail arm. So, this series of
deals reflects CK Hutchison's cautious
outlook of the global global market
right now. So, right now, you know,
there are a lot of geopolitical tensions
and disruptive technological changes.
So, what CK Hutchison is doing is to try
to preserve cash for the rainy days. And
it also offers Victor Li a chance to
invest in future growth opportunities
just like his father Li Ka-shing did
decades ago. Shirley, thank you. Shirley
Lau there, conglomerates, consumer, and
gaming report. I mean, that's such an OG
billionaire move. Cash is king. Cash is
king, like Berkshire, right? I think he
was very recently the I'm just reading
the headline here.
Uh the cash pile hit 400 billion. Like
so, it's such an OG Mhm. um yeah, uh
rich person move too.
>> [laughter]
>> Cash in the bank, cash in the bank,
nothing beats that.
Um yeah, cash in in bank um for a rainy
day as Julie mentioned here, but a great
sort of scoop there from her and her
team. And in the corporate news this
morning as well, right? We're hearing
from Chinese appliance maker Midea Group
has raised $2.2 billion through an
upsized [music]
dual tranche sale of zero coupon
convertible bonds. And the company
increased each [music] tranche to $1.1
billion
with maturities in May 2027 and May
2033. Midea says the funds will support
[music] international expansion and
boost offshore liquidity.
Saudi Arabia's $1 trillion sovereign
wealth fund has started operating a
second office [music] in mainland China.
Sources say the Shanghai branch was set
up earlier this year to enhance the
PIF's ability to do outbound [music]
deals in China and to draw investments
into the kingdom. The fund's governor
says it remains [music] committed to its
global investments.
And Bloomberg has learned that Sony
Music is finalizing [music] a deal to
acquire Blackstone's $4 billion music
catalog, which includes works by Justin
Bieber [music] and Neil Young. Now, Sony
will get the rights to more than 45,000
songs through a joint venture with
Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC.
Sources say the [music] deal could close
within the next week.
Interesting that, right? Bieber and Neil
Young.
Like that's such a cross-generational
>> [music]
>> catalog that you have there. All right.
5 and 1/2% I'll just update on markets
here. So, this rally is [music] gaining
more momentum right now. Taiwan is up 2
and 1/2. Hang Seng is at 1 and 1/2. And
I'm just looking at the [music] Hang
Seng Tech Index, we're also up by 2.6%.
So, we're better by 2% across the Asia
Pacific. More on the market move coming
up next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> US Trade Representative Jamison Greer
says [music] changes are being
considered by the European Union to a
transatlantic trade deal could limit
American exports to the block. He spoke
to Bloomberg earlier.
Right now, the United States has a 10%
tariff on the world, generally speaking.
It has
25% on autos and from around the world.
Europe has had it at only 15% this whole
time. We have tariffs on steel and
aluminum.
We have other investigations ongoing
which may or may not result in tariffs
depending on the outcome.
The idea would be can can Europe come
into compliance?
I'm not setting a hard date on this. My
view is it's already past due, frankly.
This is part of the reason why the
president has come out and said if the
if the Europeans aren't going to be
complying with this deal right now, you
know, why should we be complying with
all of it? All that being said, the
autos is just one element. There are
other elements to the deal
where the United States remains in full
compliance in contrast to where the
Europeans have been for many months.
It's just that your colleague, the
ambassador to Europe, told us earlier
they would need to see movement
relatively soon and basically said that
July would be too late. We're now in
May. So, basically, do you need to see
something between the next few weeks for
the president not to act?
Well, what I would say is right now,
this afternoon, I was meeting with my
colleague, Commissioner Maroš Šefčovič,
the trade commissioner in the European
Union.
And he he left the G7 at an appropriate
time to go have the what they call the
trilogue process between the European
Parliament, Council and Commission where
they go over the tariff bill that's
being debated. That tariff bill in the
European Parliament, it also has a lot
of amendments attached to it that we
didn't agree to with the European Union.
Amendments that could limit the relief,
limit the benefit of the agreement,
place limits on US exports
to
to Europe under a preferential trade
agreement. So, some of those amendments
need to be resolved as well. It's not
just about passing the bill. It's about
making sure the bill reflects what we
agreed last summer with the Europeans.
>> Ambassador Greer, I know for you the
focus is going to change to what's going
on in China because the president will
be going there next week. Beijing is
basically refusing to comply with US
sanctions. I'm sure you've seen the
reporting that they're telling some
firms, some refiners that they don't
need to comply when it comes to imports
of Iranian crude. How big of
an agenda item is this going to be when
the president sits down with Xi Jinping?
Obviously, it's something we're going to
have to discuss.
Iran is the world's largest state
sponsor of terrorism and anyone who's
buying oil from Iran is contributing to
that. And so when the Treasury takes a
step similar to steps it's taken many
times over decades with respect to oil
refiners who are dealing with Iran and
you have a country that refuses to
comply or directs non-compliance, that's
going to have to be a discussion item.
We certainly have had it raised at the
you know, staff level between China and
the United States.
I would say we're looking for stability
with China. We don't want this to be
something that derails the broader
the broader relationship or any
agreements that might come out of our
meeting in Beijing.
Yeah, and going into that meeting
scheduled meeting next week, we're
looking at some strength coming through
into currency that 680 handle on dollar
offshore
might just give way. We're very very
close now. The second approach I believe
this year so far there. Very quickly
before you wrap things up and go into
the second hour of the show here, the
peso is also very much in focus. [music]
We have GDP numbers coming through. On
the Philippines in a couple of minutes,
the market is rallying there in Manila
up 2% last we checked. [music] Lots more
ahead.
This is the China show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back to the second hour of the
China show. Look at the HSI half hour
into the session and we're ours around
[music] the session highs here right
now. What a half percent gains on the
Hang Seng here today and look at Asia
tech 5100 now for that gauge here. We're
up close to three and really it's the
internet platforms that are leading the
charge here. We saw that in the ADR
session in the US. So certainly the Iran
situation is there certainly see more
positive tones there and then you add to
of course that whole tech trade even you
know H tech is catching up now. Yeah, it
it it really is and I think that what's
what's interesting is the platforms are
really really coming back in a very big
way and I think Kweb move overnight
really caught a lot of people
by surprise. But yeah, I mean four and a
half percent right now on Alibaba. I'm
just having one look here at my terminal
because we are also waiting for a
Philippine
growth numbers to come through any
moment now. But yes, let's flip the page
please while we wait for the the data
coming through out of Manila. Look at
some of the movers in the top Hang Seng
tech index. about Baba Baidu. There we
go. Very nice gains there. Kuaishou is
up 7% and the benchmarks across the
region are also doing very very very
well. We we were internally we were all
kind of joking. Like we sound like
broken records now and we kind of do,
right? When you talk about you know this
tech trade continues on. How do we do it
differently every time? Well, at least
today I mean it seems like it's the
Japan story given that reopening. It's
been shut for three days. So certainly
you're seeing massive gains in the
Nikkei here today. Kospi was a little
bit off but even that now has turned a
little bit more flat if not slightly
higher. There you go. Kospi has flipped
into positive territory here in the last
couple minutes or so but Taiwan
continues to be on fire. We're seeing
you know, extending further into this
record rally here. We're up 2% for
Taipei today. Commodities are doing this
here. Of course the cooling down of oil
prices is lifting up the whole tech
sector and the rest of the risk
sentiment here today. 101 numbers for
the for the price of Brent. Uh Shanghai
crude is really kind of following the
moves that we saw in the last 24 hours
or so, but as Dave mentioned, right?
Don't overlook the other you know, the
commodities complex here. Look at how
iron ore, how steel is doing. We're back
to 110 when it comes to iron ore futures
in Singapore as well. And really the
dollar is also cooling down with the
price of oil, right? So you are seeing
pretty decent gains when it comes to
some of these EM effects. Look at the
peso coming back nearly seeing
appreciation about 1%.
>> Yeah. Uh to just the 60 handle which was
almost well, yeah, I'll use past tense,
was the line of descent there for
traders. And of course,
uh we've obviously taken that out. It
was 160, 161 on on dollar yen. We've now
played 156. We've yet to pierce through
the on the downside on dollar yen at 155
which I believe has still held despite
all of the
significant legs lower Yeah. on dollar
yen in the in recent days here.
>> surprise drop yesterday the afternoon
certainly kind of uh we all got us all
kind of thinking, oh, did they did they
go in again? Mhm. Uh right now. There
you go. GDP numbers out of Philippines
crossing here 2.8% for the first
quarter. That is a miss here and slower
than the previous quarter. Yes, it was
it it came in much slower, half a point
uh below the median. Last uh print was
of course 3%. I'm still waiting for the
quarter on quarter figures because if
that is
down to that extent, we probably have a
zero spot something handle on the Q on Q
numbers which will will will get to be
later on, but yes, this is uh indicative
of the the effects of course in the back
end of the first quarter. Yeah, the oil
shock is certainly we saw that that pass
through in inflation with that 7% print
earlier this week. Now we wonder that
what the hit to growth has been and here
you're seeing it uh there. So things
slowing down there. There you go, 0.9%
quarter on quarter. Uh those numbers
just crossing your Bloomberg here also a
miss from the median estimates there. Um
but certainly uh still in positive
territory to say the least though. But
certainly we're going to get more from
HSBC and their economists there on what
the BSP and what really the government
can do to to kind of stem this this
energy shock for the economy. In the
meantime, let's get you back to Japan,
right? The top currency official at
Sushi Mimura has signaled that his
country is prepared to respond on all
fronts to speculative moves in the
foreign exchange market. That's after
signs of a possible intervention that
bolstered the yen on Wednesday. Let's
get more now from our chief FX and rates
corre- correspondent Ruth Carson. Yeah,
I mean, the yen, Ruth, most watched
currency [laughter] among traders. I'm
sure for yourself as well. After what
was another suspected intervention,
whether they stepped in or not,
we're we're talking about maybe 155, 156
levels here right now. Is this the new
line in the sand?
The yen is the only currency that
matters, to be honest, right now for a
lot of investors. It doesn't matter if
you're in Tokyo, who obviously are back
online today,
or Singapore, or indeed New York, or
London. Speculation definitely is rife
that authorities did come in yesterday
and hit dollar yen really really much
lower. But again, that question on that
line in the sand, we have not seen
dollar yen break 155. It is still a line
that traders are appearing to defend. In
fact, when I speak with money managers
and investors out there, there are some
that are saying, "You know what? If
dollar yen falls to 155, I'm going to
buy." Which is obviously bearish on the
yen. So, there is definitely that sort
of tit-for-tat ongoing, you know,
uh
I don't want to use the word conflict,
but certainly tension there in markets
on where the yen should trade.
Yeah, so Ruth, at this point the markets
are counting the bullets
in terms of intervention because there
are there are IMF rules which we
understand based on what Mr. Mimura said
earlier
uh don't seem to apply. Help us
understand really what matters here and
what the rules are and whether or not we
know that whether Japan has of course
used up uh part if not all of its quota.
Yeah, so there's a lot of commentary
about this. And in the end the IMF
guidelines are just that. They're
guidelines, right? And it's up to
different authorities to decide whether
or not they want to or should abide by
these rules that are set by the IMF. So,
three consecutive days of intervention,
if that's even confirmed or not, you
know, and no more than three times in a
6-month window uh to defend your
currency to retain this so-called
free-floating currency status. Now,
there is debate among investors on you
know effectiveness uh of the IMF here
and what it actually means in the first
place, but ultimately we know that
Japanese authorities are concerned about
yen weakness. That hasn't gone away
despite, you know, where uh dollar-yen
is trading right now. So, you know, when
you put uh everything together here,
does that mean that uh Japan is counting
its bullets? Are investors going, "Ooh,
you know what? Let's not test it
anymore." Look, that's all still up for
debate. If dollar-yen continues to drift
higher, we know 160 is certainly a level
that is concerning to the authorities,
and there'll be action.
I mean, the dollar
and the drop we're seeing is certainly
is helping things, Ruth. Um there you
know, it seems like investors are really
hopeful that we're seeing the end of
this war.
Can we continue to see more of the
slowdown in the dollar then?
Yeah, and ultimately when it comes to
what, week nine, week 10 into the war
now, the dollar dominates basically all
trading when it comes to FX. Right?
Everything else, including the yen, is
weaker, has been weaker against the
dollar until recently, because King
Dollar is the ultimate haven ultimately.
And right now, with optimism sort of
sweeping trading desks, it doesn't
matter if you're a credit investor,
stock investor, FX, or bonds, you sell
the dollar. You sell the dollar, and if
we get more good news, a deal of some
sort between Tehran and Washington,
absolutely, we'll probably see a lot
more dollar selling, because it's
risk-on again.
All right, Ruth. Thank you, Ruth Carson,
chief FX rates correspondent, always
making FX so interesting for us. Um
yeah, let's get to this Bloomberg scoop
now, also, that was very interesting,
too. Bloomberg has learned that China's
financial regulator is advising the
country's largest lenders to temporarily
suspend new loans to five refineries
recently sanctioned by the US over their
ties to Iranian oil. Let's bring in Arm
Mellow, China's correspondent here, on
the thinking behind this. Obviously,
this squares with what we heard just a
few days ago of them telling these
refiners to ignore US sanctions. Yeah,
and we are learning this from sources
who tell us that the banking regulator
told the banks to review their dealings
with these US sanctioned refineries.
That directive came ahead of the
Ministry of Commerce directive to ignore
those sanctions. So, at this point, it's
not clear whether it's a matter of, you
know, the different departments of the
government not really coordinating with
each other, because China has a
tradition of complying with sanctions.
And this is quite a new thing, right?
Pushing back against what they see as
unjustified long-arm jurisdiction. It's
the first time that they're applying the
so-called blocking rules that was first
introduced back in 2021. Uh but on the
other hand, it's potentially also
perhaps, you know, another way to look
at it is that China trying to put up a a
strong and tough front on part in
public, but then at the back end quietly
telling the banks to comply in order not
to risk further escalation of sanctions,
and the risk of secondary sanctions on
some of these banks that are supporting
the financial transactions for these
importers because Secretary of
Scott Besson, the Treasury Secretary has
said he has already sent letters to two
Chinese banks warning them of those
threats of secondary sanctions. But
again, there's debate going on out there
about whether or not the US will
actually fulfill
act on that threat, right? Because
there's the the
concern about how it could threaten
financial stability not just in China,
but also spilling over into the rest of
the world. There was that meeting with
the Iranian Foreign Minister in Beijing
meeting with Wang Yi. What what came out
of that? Is there more to this that, you
know, China becoming more of a mediator
in this war?
Yeah, it's hard to say because China
has, you know, in the last ceasefire
deal sort of played down their role in
securing that deal, and they have not
publicly said that they want to play a
mediating role, but they have said they
will play a constructive role. And it
seems significant that the the Iranian
Foreign Minister traveled to Beijing
just to see Wang Yi just a few days
ahead of Trump's visit, right? And he
did say as well, he hopes China can play
a bigger role. Have a listen.
Sheen Hamada something to do with We are
aware of the four-point proposal put
forward by the honorable President Xi.
Based on these principles, it is
possible to achieve peace and stability
in the Persian Gulf region. We have
always believed, and even more now, that
China can play a constructive role in
this regard.
Yeah, and China seems to have a more
neutral stance as well, especially when
it comes to Iran's nuclear ambitions. It
says that, you know, it respects Iran's
legitimate right to develop peaceful use
of nuclear energy, and it appreciates
that Iran has committed not to develop
lethal nuclear weapons and that has been
one of the key sticking points in any
deal between Iran and the US and so
remains to be seen just how much
leverage China is willing to
use on both Iran and the US because it
also doesn't have unlimited leverage
here given that it has to balance its
relationship with all the other Gulf
countries that has huge amount of trade
with China as well. And when it comes to
the US, you know, any
country
>> threat on the US whether it's leverage
over critical minerals, for example, all
of that could threaten to undo the very
fragile trade truce so far. Yvonne Gim
in Low there, our China correspondent on
really what what this means and what
what this is going to mean for next
week, of course, when the presidents do
meet. Well, still ahead, we're talking
to a Core Greater China CEO and he's
going to join us to discuss expansion
plans in China after opening 800 hotels
in the country. Ken Chew [music] is with
us exclusively next. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. Just to recap the
growth numbers that did come through
just a few minutes back and I believe
they're still an ongoing briefing giving
[music] us more context to the slowest
pace of growth there for the economy in
the Philippines going back about 5
years, right? So, we have a two handle
on growth, 2.8% which missed the the
median estimates of 3.3. It didn't quite
miss all the forecast. We I think we had
a low one of about 2 and 1/2% I believe
as forecast there, but I think you
juxtapose that with
inflation that's come through and
effectively net growth disappears,
right? So, this is something we'll get
into, of course, how the BSP balances
certainly a loss in demand against this
backdrop of higher inflation.
Anyway, we'll get to that in a moment
with HSBC, but in the meantime, let's
talk about China. Yeah, certainly
there's been some interest in when it
comes to what happened in the Labor Day
holiday. The China reported a record
number of passenger trips during its
5-day Labor Day
really holiday there. More than 1.5
billion trips were taken, an increase of
about 3.5%
on year. Now, spending by overseas
visitors jumped more than 45% from a
year earlier, while payment transactions
rose over 37%, and that increase in
foreign spending coincided with a surge
in visa-free arrivals. Joining us now
exclusively from our Shanghai studios is
the CEO of Accor Greater China, Kent
Zhu. Kent, good morning from Hong Kong.
Yvonne and David here. Thank you so much
for taking the time. Lots to talk about
with you. We had this recent holiday. We
have a lot of trends. I know you have
some very
some very big growth plans in China, but
let me just get started if I could with
the recent
long weekend. Could you give us maybe
what were the highlights for your group?
What stood out to you? And equally, what
were the challenges?
Good morning. Um
Indeed, the China hotels recorded very
strong RevPAR growth over this past May
holiday.
While it is
that did experience a slightly softer
demand in comparison with Chinese New
Year and the Tomb Sweeping holidays,
these I would say attributed two main
factors. One is this Chinese New Year,
we had a longer holiday and also a
later holiday.
And this shifted the travel pattern
slightly. And number two, the airfare
rise
as a result of the recent oil price
increase. But nevertheless, the hotels
generally did very well as reported in
in other
various different sources. We are
waiting for the official data in the
next couple of days, but I'm sure
uh picture will be very robust.
You mentioned about the the increase in
in jet fuel prices and and really
obviously airfares have have really
skyrocketed since this, you know, Iran
situation began. Can
has it impacted any way your occupancy
across your hotels? Can you tell us a
bit more of the impact this Iran war may
have on the industry?
Uh the Middle East crisis didn't really
impact our greater China hotels
performance that much. Simply because uh
Middle East is a very small market for
us. It's not on the top top 10 list.
It takes up about 3% of a greater
China's uh hotel revenue.
Uh number two, uh Q1 and Q2 are not
their traditional high travel season.
So, the hotel's impact is is quite
minimal.
Mhm.
Okay. I guess can't just maybe
uh
including what we've seen so far in the
first few months of 2026 before of
course but uh the war started in in Iran
and maybe also encapsulating the recent
weekend. Could you tell us more about
you know, where you're seeing the growth
in as far as is it domestic travel that
seems to be picking up if you have the
data on that or are we seeing a faster
pick up in inbound travel into mainland
China?
Well, inbound uh extremely robust. In
2025, we saw a 36% increase for our
Accor hotels in greater China.
And the first quarter of this year up
until actually end of uh March, we saw
another increase of 25%. So, this is
this is a very strong sign that you
know, China's
visa-free policy is is helping the the
industry
in greater China. Number two, the
leisure demand in domestic markets is
also very robust
particularly in markets in greater
China.
Sorry, great greater Bay Area
Sanya Yunnan and also Guizhou. For
example, Hong Kong and and Guangzhou,
these two cities
literally run full house for the last 10
10 days.
Mhm. You mentioned RevPAR was actually
pretty good during during the the
holiday, Ken.
I I think up until the end of last year,
RevPAR in China was still in negative
territory here and really, you know,
underperforming a lot of parts of the
region.
Do you have a sense of of demand picking
up a bit more there and and when do you
think RevPAR can actually turn positive
in China?
I think the RevPAR a negative RevPAR
really was in the midscale and the
economy scale hotels last year. But if
you look at the premium and luxury
segments, actually outperformed 2025.
There was a 5% to 6% of RevPAR growth in
the premium and luxury segment. So in a
nutshell, we see this trend starting
actually from Q3 last year until
year-to-date this year,
luxury segment in particular has
recorded more than 8% increase
year-on-year.
Mhm.
You guys hit a milestone, 800 hotels,
and I think it's you've taken that
opportunity, Ken, to to tell the markets
that you plan another 800
hotels in China. Could you could you
give us a sense of
well, for one, when you think you will
be able to hit another 800 from the
current levels and if you could give us
a breakdown too in terms of the price
points or the locations in China where
you want to see
the bulk of that
new growth.
Indeed, we recently celebrated the 800
hotel milestone and we set our ambition
for another 800 in 5 to 6 years time. We
have a robust and very clear uh road map
and strategy in place.
Number one, we focus on our core brands
uh in tier one and tier two cities. Um
that's
uh and also niche uh destinations. These
are the places or markets where we will
build our long-term positioning. Um the
the brands including uh
Raffles, Fairmont, you know, Sofitel and
Gallery, uh
Swissotel and Pullman. So, number two,
um
we we are a
asset-light hospitality group. We grow
our business business through management
contracts as well as franchise and
master franchise. Now, our master
franchise partnership will be able to
scale up our networks through um
midscale and economy scale
uh brands into tertiary and first-tier
cities.
And number three, um
we maintain a very strong and very
long-term view with our owners, and we
treat them as our core part of our core
assets.
Uh the owners grow with us. We want to
grow with them because many of the
owners our owners actually have multiple
asset portfolios. They continue to
expand their hotel uh business. So, when
they all have open the new projects, we
want to be uh their first choice. Um
number five number four is the expansion
of new markets. We have a very clear
strategy to go west.
Xingjian and Midwest region are the
hotspots. So, we we we have a
a strategy to put accelerate our
development resources in these uh new
markets. And lastly,
Accor has a huge portfolio of brands. We
have the largest brand portfolio among
all the hotel companies. Uh we want to
continue to bring the new new new brands
into China.
We have a 45 brands, 17 of them already
in China. So, we are continuous to new
China to meet the needs of the changing
uh consumer preference.
That's interesting. Go west.
Xinjiang, could you talk a little bit
more about your plans there?
Well, Xinjiang, as you know, the
government is also strategically
developing that area. There is a lot of
business and economic activities and
natural resources is huge. A lot of
great
tourist destinations. We want to be
there for across all different brands
from mid-scale to luxury brands. So, we
are now having teams stationed in
Xinjiang, stationed in in the mid-west
regions to look for opportunities and we
are pretty sure that we will be able to
become a major player in the region.
I want to get your take on what you're
seeing domestically in consumption
patterns there, right? I mean, we've
seen
the consumption side of the story still
in very slow going when it comes to
recovery. I think sentiment is improving
by the margin.
But, you you are starting to see what it
comes to what consumers want. It's it's
service quality, it's competitive
pricing. We How does that change how you
strategize here when it comes to luxury
lifestyle and some of your economy
tiers?
It's interestingly, if you see the
performance of 2025 and probably the
first quarter of this year as well, that
the luxury brands and
the premium brands are doing much better
than the mid-scale and economy scale
hotels. That shows that consumers does
have the
the spending power. It does show that
the consumer confidence level is is
continuing to improve.
You know, this trend has started from I
would say since
third quarter of last year we already
see luxury hotels are performing much
better better. As I said just now that
8% increase in 2025
and versus 4% to 5% decrease in the
mid-scale and and economy scale hotels.
Yeah.
Anything that's really unique about
China that is more pronounced in the
mainland than anywhere else? You know,
you know, are people staying or
preferring to stay longer? Are they Do
they
you know, is there a preference for
certain price points? Are they
Do they have a preference in terms of
what they want for breakfast? Tell us
something interesting, Kent.
It's a it's a it's a the shift the shift
of travel patterns.
There's a huge shift from traditional
sightseeing to experiential travels.
You will see that more and more younger
and but experienced travelers are now
staying away from the hustle and bustle
of of the major cities. They choose to
take their own time, enjoy their own own
own pace.
So the smaller destinations
or niche destinations such as Kaifeng or
Jingdezhen or Datong Datong Luoyang,
these are becoming very very popular. So
the customers are shifting from major
destinations to more niche destinations
to be able to for them enjoy something
new and different to enjoy the history,
culture, even food. So there's a huge
a trend in that sense that you know, we
the smaller destinations or niche
destinations will be
a primary focus for developers as well
in the in the future
to to build up the scale of new
facilities.
Kent, thank you so much for taking the
time to speak with us. Let's talk again
soon. The CEO there of Accor Greater
Greater China. Before we wrap things up
here,
Hello Kitty became goodbye Kitty today.
6.3% to the downside here after the
company's delaying its earnings release.
More on the big movers [music] coming up
across the region. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets,
[music] of course, coming back from that
long holiday. And yeah, they're coming
back on a pretty positive note here.
Take a look at that. We're up some 5% or
more for the Nikkei 225. Topix is up
more than 3%. So, yes, they're
continuing that that pent-up demand. You
can feel definitely feel it here today.
And what they're buying up certainly has
been a lot of the tech space. But look
at dollar-yen as well, right? We we've
seen 156 levels here. Um but yes, was
157 the line this ends? Certainly that
was the one thing that people were were
questioning. But haven't been able to
break below 155. But nevertheless, the
equity market is liking still the news
here when it comes to Iran, this whole
AI boom and the like here. So, there
here's some of the biggest movers that
we're seeing. And it's double-digit
gains that you're seeing for the likes
of
I button. We're seeing about touching
the daily upper limit here. Um so it's
the chips, it's SoftBank. There you go,
up some 16% here. Renesas as well as
Sumitomo um
electric. If my eyes can see it that
far. We're getting old now.
>> things. now for us.
Yes. Also at this age. Yeah, at this
age. Plus millennials. All right. Uh
Asian markets are doing this year right
now. Um you know, not as optimistic as
Japan per se, but certainly you're still
seeing some pretty bright spots here in
Hong Kong, uh in Taiwan that continues
to do well. Korea was a little bit on
shaky footing here today, but we've also
turned positive there. But US futures
are flat this morning. But the dollar is
still steadily and still declining a
little bit today.
>> Yeah, I think the milestone in the last
60 minutes was uh the Koreans are now
bigger than the Canadians.
>> [laughter]
>> The stock market. The stock market.
>> Market value. Market value. Uh that
follows of course that the Taiwanese a
few days ago, stock market uh as well.
And I think both are now uh eyeing uh
India as the next one there just on the
back of this AI memory
um mem- memory rally. Okay, um couple of
markets of course that have been sort of
left behind this this this AI rally,
those that don't have a big AI
constituency in their indexes, those
that are net importers,
uh really on the back foot. A lot of
these are in Southeast Asia. Uh
Southeast Asia, so you have the
Philippines which actually did come out
with well, couple of highlights there,
right? So, inflation recently seven
handle on that.
Uh you had this GDP print which I
believe we're still getting some lines
on from
the government as we speak. Uh had a two
handle on that and you just do the math
on that. That's really a terrible real
growth number as well. That's concerning
and the direction of travel doesn't seem
encouraging. Uh joining us here in set
to talk us through uh these numbers and
policy prescriptions is uh Aris Dacanay,
senior ASEAN economist at HSBC. Aris,
great to nice to see you. Good morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning. Uh 2.8% put
that in context for us. So, it's
actually interesting to figure to notice
that construction and public governance
spending actually improved and yet
growth slowed down. What led to this was
the 3% growth rate in private
consumption which is very slow in
Philippine standards and it also signals
the fact that the flood control scandal
that happened in June 2025 is now
spilling over to private demand. That
crowding in effect uh that multiplier
effect on government spending is now
down curtailing private demand, private
investment and at the same time 10% of
households are actually employed in
construction. Mhm. And with half of
construction demand being government,
the fact that that is currently falling
at around 20 to 50% year on year, you
are you know, the labor market has
weakened. Unemployment rate has risen to
around 5%.
Okay. Um there's so many things going
on.
When you have the hit to growth that was
unexpected, you have to cool inflation,
you have to support the currency.
What what are going to be the
priorities? What what what can the
government or the BSP actually do at
this point? So that is inflation risk is
basically high. And I think for the
BSP's mind mindset, its principle is who
can do best what or who can do what
best, sorry.
Um the government, given the fact that
it's government spending that's really
bringing growth down to 2 to 3% levels,
the best way to prop up growth is not to
keep monetary policy loose, but to bring
government spending back up as soon as
possible. What the BSP is best at doing
at is to stem the spillover effects of
inflation by keeping policy rates high.
So even with growth growth is down, I do
think a 50 basis point hike is on the
table in June. Perhaps if you want to
smoothen the tightening cycle, um you
can do an off-cycle 25 and maybe another
25 come June. Um it helps you support
the peso, bring effects in those
inflation down, and at the same time
spend you know, stem the spillover
effects.
So 50 basis points, is that the floor?
I think that is I think 20 I In this
cycle, is this the floor? Oh, as in
after this
I think there's more. hikes do we get? I
think the BSP can go up to as high as
6%. Oh. Um the core core in uh
policy rate uh sorry, inflation forecast
for 2027 is 4.5%. You need to have a
positive real rate if you want to really
bring inflation down back to you within
target.
Okay. So I mean
>> can can the can the economy absorb I
know you mentioned that the fiscal side
of things can can step up a bit, but
we're talking about rates that high. I
mean, can the economy actually absorb it
or is that hit to growth going to be
even greater moving further down the
road? I think at the eighth point that
the market missed out is the fact that
wages in 2025 actually grew by 7%. Mhm.
>> [clears throat]
>> And the slowdown in consumption today is
not a result of incomes going down, but
the fact that household saving has gone
up higher than pre-pandemic levels. So,
there is room to absorb this higher
interest rates. Okay. Is that a bad or a
good thing that savings rate is going
up?
>> I think it's a it's a sign of
resilience. Resilience that the
government given the uncertainty in the
economy ahead, you have to bring your
savings back up to make sure that your
consumption smooths throughout the rest
of the year.
>> What about the prospect of a
recession? Is that Is that a tail risk
still or is it something we should
uh consider more?
The reason I bring that up is because,
you know, first quarter growth wasn't
very good.
But that only captured the last few
weeks of the the first few weeks of the
war. Yeah. We're about 2 months into
this and if you think about it, we're
2/3 into the quarter where we do have a
war and elevated prices. So, the
direction of travel doesn't seem to be
encouraging. Well, first on the
perspective of government spending, I do
think we're already
past the lowest point. I think
government spending should gradually
improve throughout the quarters. So,
that helps. I think the recession risk
is very much low. In terms of energy,
let's just say you know, push comes to
shove, energy prices really go up. Um
people also forget the idea the fact
that energy sources in the Philippines
is very much diversified. Only 3% of its
electric electricity generation is
actually from oil from the Middle East.
The rest is from coal from Indonesia, um
from Malampaya, which is a domestically
sourced you know, gas, um and 20% is
actually in renewable energy. Mhm. So,
let's say oil prices go up. Yes, the
diesel prices, gasoline prices that we
inject in our cars do become more
expensive and it affects the rich.
But,
totality, I don't think there's any risk
of a shortage. Electricity will continue
to, you
know, be So, why are officials sounding
the alarm then if, you know, we spoke
with the the energy secretary at the
start of the war and they seemed
disproportionately concerned with the
reality you just set out that, you know,
the energy sources seem to be diverse
enough to to to secure,
you know, future supplies. I see as the
Philippine government is being ahead of
the curve. You had Thailand inflation
surprising to the upside. Vietnam
surprising to the upside. You have the
BSP being the most hawkish. It even
raised its inflation rate forecast 6.5
to 4.3% in 2027. I don't think that
they're doing this because the
Philippines is the most vulnerable.
They're doing this because they want to
be ahead of the curve. They want to be
able to reallocate the resources that
they cannot spend in infrastructure and
reallocate it to the
to to responding to the energy crisis.
Okay.
Can they do more in terms of just taming
the impact from from oil prices? I mean,
what can the government still do to to
weather this right now if if this
continues on
for for weeks and months?
>> So, inflation surprised to the upside
7.2% around 2.8 percentage that is
actually just from the oil shock. A huge
part of that is rice.
And rice prices currently, um,
I went to the Philippines 2 weeks ago
and I was shocked that when I ordered an
extra cup of rice, it was 80 pesos a
cup. Okay. And I looked around. So, it's
large. I looked around and nobody was
surprised. Before, when I was a few
years ago, it was around what, 20, 25?
Um, at
as we speak, um, a kilogram of rice is
around 46.84 kilo, which is the highest
in Philippine history. Really. So, if we
are able to, I guess,
put provide some certainty in the rice
in rice policy on rice trade policy, if
we're able to lower the tariff of tariff
rates on rice, I think that will be a
huge disinflationary impulse for the
Philippines. I mean, to the point you
just made here, we're just hearing from
the government now that there is a need
for a combination between monetary and
fiscal action. Can we get that up, guys,
if we can? Yeah. Just for our viewers,
Tita, I guess to broaden the view then,
the
might not be directly under your your
your purview, but
you know, on on the energy story, do you
as an economist do you see the need for
the Philippines to have some sort of
regulatory
powers over downstream energy prices as
a
just looking at the prospect of how they
weren't able to tame downside
uh downstream energy prices because of
just deregulation. And
I think perhaps longer term, do you see
the country pivoting more towards China,
for example, and you know, trade
relationships and what have you?
I think it's pivoting to to more
credible sources of energy. And you saw
it in 2022, it's as early as 2023 and
2024, the Philippines reopened or at
least opened its its renewable sector to
100% foreign ownership, which led not
just China investing in the Philippines,
but also Germany, also the Netherlands.
It's not by country, but who can provide
energy to the Philippines.
Um there are a lot of FDI commitments in
renewable energy. It is the highest
source of of renewable and of FDI
commitments in the Philippines. It has
just yet to follow through. Yeah. So, I
think it's going to be good for
government policy to re-prioritize
all these FDI committed to make sure we
have ample renewable energy in the next
chapter. Okay. Um You
other parts of Southeast Asia. I'm just
wondering we have the Bank Negara rate
decision. We had Thailand CPI that came
out uh yesterday as well.
Um how much more can these these central
banks in in the ASEAN region still hike?
Your thoughts on the room? Uh it's it it
varies across Southeast Asia. And for
Thailand, even if inflation is expected
Inflation surprised to the upside
yesterday, 2.9%. Even if inflation is
expected to rise further,
I think it's actually the BOT that
could, you know, keep its monetary
policy unchanged at 1%. Um it's again
that rebalancing of monetary and fiscal
policy. So, there was news There was a
400 billion loan decree uh for for the
Thai government yesterday that could
bring debt to GDP to 68% contingent
liabilities um currently rising because
of the oil fuel fund. Um let's just say
that it is about to near that 70% fiscal
deficit limit. Mhm. Once you reach that
voluntary limit, you have to tighten
your fiscal belts in 2027
to keep debt level stable. And that
would be, of course, a drag on growth.
So, the weight or at least the monetary
policy has to do the heavy lifting in
growth in 2027 and beyond as fiscal, you
know, as Thailand recreates fiscal
space.
>> Mhm. Just a final note uh on Malaysia. I
think we have a rate decision as well.
On the export side, people talk about
Malaysia as now a chip exporter, AI
exporter. Uh would you classify the
country as increasingly more tied to the
AI story, Malaysia?
>> Yes. Um um Malaysia is a big producer is
producer of SSDs, of memory of of memory
drives, which uh I think there was news
in Korea that memory chips are currently
in shortage. So, if memory chips are in
shortage, SSDs should also be in
shortage. Um I bought I bought an SSD in
February at 8,000 pesos.
>> Mhm. Now it's at 25,000 pesos. That's a
good thing. That's a good thing for
Malaysia.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. Uh are you selling that on eBay?
No, no, no.
Okay, that sounds like a better bet
actually than putting it in an index
fund. There we go. Addy Stice and I,
thank you so much. Senior ASEAN
economist at HSBC. We have lots more
coming up here on The China Show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching The China
Show. So, we're looking ahead to
President Trump's scheduled meeting with
the Chinese president next week. And
among the long-standing tensions, of
course, between the two sides are really
the US military's curbs of Pentagon's
curbs here when it comes to Chinese
companies that could pose national
security risks. In fact, when you look
at that list, it's really grown over the
years, right? Since 2020, the number of
firms blacklisted by the US for ties
with the Chinese military has grown by
more than 800%.
We've gone from 20 to about 200. Those
now include EV battery giant CATL,
smartphone maker Huawei, and chip
company SMIC.
>> Yeah, but you may remember earlier this
year, three of China's biggest tech
champions, we're talking Alibaba, BYD,
and Baidu were briefly briefly added,
then removed from that list at the
Pentagon's request. Now, the botched
blacklisting has given traders a window
now into a Trump administration often at
odds with itself on how to approach
Beijing, and that is the subject of our
big take today. Let's bring in our
national security reporter Kate O'Keefe.
She joins us now from Washington to tell
us more. A fantastic sort of analysis
piece that you have here, Kate. Tell
Tell a little about this list. We've
we've kind of highlighted who is on it.
And why do you think it really matters?
Right. Well, this list has really been
growing in prominence since its first
iteration in 2020. At this point, it
really is targeting, you know, the crown
jewels of of China's heavy-hitting
companies.
I mean, you've got I think I found that
was 20% of China's 100 most valuable
companies by market cap are now being
targeted by the Pentagon on this list.
And then once you get on the list, I
mean, it's not great because, you know,
it's like a red flag. Um, your partners,
customers can get skittish. It can also
be a sign that, you know, you may later
end up getting Treasury sanctions or
export controls, um,
put on you. So, nobody wants to be on
it. And so, Washington D.C. is just sort
of awash in lobbyists and lawyers trying
to get clients off this list.
Yeah, and I think there was
Was it back in January or Feb?
Uh, walk us through what happened back
then because there was there was a point
where the list came up and it was posted
and quickly with
take taken down. So, what happened
there?
So, that was a crazy day even by
Washington standards. Um, we were
literally writing the story and midway
through writing this story as fast as we
could that the new list had been posted,
we noticed the list was gone. It would
have been taken down. And it's been sort
of this mystery in Washington ever
since. And so, we set out to figure out
what happened. Um, and it turned out
that there really was just this
fundamental disagreement, um, between
the Pentagon and the White House over
how to handle a couple of the big memory
chip makers, um, that the Pentagon had
taken off but the White House wanted put
back on, um, because they don't want to
signal that they no longer think these
Chinese memory chip companies are are a
risk.
Um, and so, it just gave us a very
interesting window into sort of chaos
within the Trump administration, but
also just,
you know, gives you a sense of how hard
it is to calibrate these kinds of policy
actions in the middle of this truce that
the US and China have. You know, it's
such a fragile agreement and any misstep
can lead to things going off the rails.
So,
you know, it was a really interesting
way to kind of get at that issue.
And really interesting within, you know,
the Trump administration, you know,
there seems to be a different approach
to to the whole China strategy.
What do you think this episode with the
Chinese military and these companies and
this list, what does it say about
US-China relations moving forward here?
Of course, ahead of that meeting between
the two presidents.
Right. I mean,
it just, you know, it just underscores,
I think, how fragile this this truce
between the two countries is.
Um, I mean, the list, you know, while
it's obviously not good to be on the
list, it isn't as severe as being hit
with Treasury sanctions or something
like that. So, it was seen as a way to
just like remind China that like
Washington's not afraid, you know, we
will continue to confront you.
Um, but then with the list coming down,
you know, it made it made the White
House um, and the administration look
pretty weak. Um, and that's I think why
they got so frustrated with the Pentagon
officials,
um,
who,
>> [clears throat]
>> you know, they blamed for this outcome.
Um, and so, yeah, it's just it's a
tricky situation. I mean, the last time
the US overplayed their hand in these
negotiations, China cut off US access to
rare earths.
Um, and that's kind of been driving
things ever since. The US is now afraid
that something like that could happen
again.
Kate, it's great to have you. Thanks for
joining our show here and staying up
late to bring us your big take. Kate
O'Keeffe there, our Bloomberg national
security reporter. Of course, you can
read her full Big Take piece,
"Pentagon's Botched Blacklist Highlights
the Frail Trump-Xi Truce." There, right
on your terminal for subscribers there,
and I Big Take [music] is the function
to go to. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. Before we wrap up the show
today, just a recap, [music] it's been
quite a
uh significant week in as far as the
Hong Kong story is concerned. We had
several economic indicators. Retail
sales were out yesterday. [music] Of
course, you might remember the GDP
print, which came in at a 5-year high.
Uh it's a couple of things, right? So,
retail sales
uh if you put that into account, what
you're looking at here is a 3-month
rolling average of retail sales. It
takes you back about 15 15 years.
There's several ways you can interpret
this. So, like, one is, you know, we
have certainly rebounded from the lows
that we hit back in the pandemic, and
that's risen by about 50% from that low
uh back in 2020. Now, we're 50% back,
but we're also 50% still uh below the
peak that we had in in 20 in 2014. So,
you call that we're about 25% short from
the current levels. Now, is that the new
normal looking at spending patterns,
where people are purchasing, what
they're buying, for example? And that's
interesting because despite us not being
back to 2014 highs, the economy is
actually a lot bigger than we were in
2014. Uh in fact, this shows you the
projection and actual numbers. This is
This is where we are in terms of the
timeline, right? End 2025. This is a
projection from Bloomberg Economics of
how large the economy will get through
to 2030. And of course, you had this
period of challenging years because you
had the protests, you had the pandemic,
and then you had us come off growth
trend for a few years. But as you can
see, we've now sort of resumed that
trend back up. And it does seem we will
be intact here going through to 2023
and as far as those new growth drivers
are concerned and exports have certainly
helped very very recently.
And that I guess in many ways explains
this why Hong Kong stocks have really
outperformed and in fact this just
happening in the last I think hour and a
half or so.
MSCI Hong Kong is actually now
just recently topped its recent peak and
it's now back to the highest level here
since since 2021. We'll show you that in
a moment. But yes, you can get more on
this context of course and on this story
our insiders guide to the money and
people shaking up the finance up Hong
Kong edition newsletter. We have more on
the story and of course that goes into
the the big event over the weekend which
is I believe Hyrox which I think starts
>> [laughter]
>> starts tomorrow and that GDP chart will
actually look like the heart rate of
many people participating in that.
>> I thought you were talking about Trump
Xi meeting but you're like no, it's
Hyrox. That's that's the big game in
town really this weekend when it comes
to for Hong Kong all the bankers and
everybody that's taken part. And the
endurance is waiting. They're doing
several days of it. So that that's just
the amount of people that have signed
up.
Even shout out to my my my trainer that
I can't I can't train you today. I got
to do Hyrox this weekend.
Good luck to them. Good luck. Yeah, he
always does well. Shout out.
MSCI as Dave mentioned, right? So the
Hong Kong story certainly has bright
shoes. We're not close to to
pre-pandemic levels. We see it certainly
that with some of the Macau numbers as
well, but certainly
it is looking more favorable here. The
the property side is doing better. You
talk about really what the the import
side too, right? People are actually
loading up on things that are related to
AI, electronics and the like and this
whole role as a transshipment hub to
mainland China. I mean, Hong Kong has
found a very big influence in that sort
of this part of the story as well. So
there you go. Shout out to Hong Kong of
course.
In terms of the top movers and what
we're seeing you know, it's HS Tech and
once again you are seeing the likes of
of Kuaishou, Tencent Music, Kingsoft,
Baidu have been some of the big movers
here just today [music] alone. Alibaba
is up close to 5%. So, yeah. Good day
>> [music]
>> for, of course, the China bulls today.
That's it for us in the China show.
Insight with Haslinda Amin is next.
>> [music]